Reviewer 2 of SIMPAR 2016 submission 48

Comments to the author
======================

This article presents an autonomous exploration concept,
which minimizes the entropy of an occupancy grid map, based
on a measure of Shannon entropy. It assumes that the
trajectory of the robot is known, and addresses the
computational issues of computing the full Shannon entropy
by calculating instead the expected ray (meaning ray
tracing) entropy based on range bearing (e.g. ladar) type
sensors.

The article is, in general, well written and interesting,
although the following important points should be noted.

General Comments:

1. A main weakness of the article is the assumption that
the trajectory is known - which clearly makes the article a
"mapping only" article, limiting its impact somewhat.

2. There are many very relevant references missing in the
literature review, which do not just use "Frontiers of
predicted measurements", which the authors say are the
state of the art in this area. These should also be
discussed and compared in the introduction - e.g.:

F. Bourgault, A. Makarenko, S. Williams, B. Grocholsky, and
H. Durrant-Whyte, “Information based adaptive robotic
exploration,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS 2002), 2002. 

R. Sim and N. Roy, "Global A-Optimal Robot Exploration in
SLAM", in IEEE International Conference on Robotics &
Automation, 2005.

3. The main result in Fig. 3 is not very convincing, and
rather preliminary. It is not very clear that the robot
returns to the initial part of the map to improve the
information gain here. Maybe more convincing results could
be included?

Particular Comments: 

1. Introduction, page 1, paragraph 1, the text is confusing
as the authors state "Several SLAM approaches are applied
to a variety of problems when mobile robots traverse
through an environment to generate a map, but the
trajectories are assumed given." Although I think I
understand what the authors mean, in that the concepts of
parts of SLAM algorithms are applied to mapping, SLAM
clearly means the concept of estimating BOTH the trajectory
and map - so I think this text should be re-worded.

2. Page 3, column 2, just after Eq. (11), the authors state
that "Conveniently, this density corresponds to the inverse
normalizer defined in (2)". Some explanation would be
useful here, as Eq. (11) does not appear to correspond to
the normalizer in Eq. (2).

3. Page 5, column 2, Section IV-B, "where the probabilistic
properties of the sensor are taken from [10]" - it would be
useful if the authors at least summarized these.

Typos:

1. Introduction, paragraph 1 "when mobile robots traverse
through an" -> "when mobile robots traverse an" ("through"
is redundant).

2. Section IV-B, page 6, last paragraph, "…not frontiers a
predicted measurement scans" -> "…not frontiers of
predicted measurement scans"?
